[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, the ego can't
reflect upon the self
unless it has a mirror
against which to read itself.
Understanding of
Western science
and the shamanic understanding
that it's all interwoven.
It's made of ayahuasca.
[INAUDIBLE] psychological
and physiological
problems, from heroin
addiction to Parkinson's.
-It's a trip.
You're going somewhere.
You're going on a
fucking hero's journey.
It could be an eternity
in a hell realm.
For about 40
minutes, something is
coursing through
every cell in my body,
like an intelligent force.
There was this wave coming back
of the suffering and the pain
of all beings.
It was, whoa!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You have a pretty severe
need to live a lot of pain.
You're going to have to
experience things that you
don't want to experience.
It's not about colors.
It's not about pretty
animals and plants.
It's about your life.
They're trying to put
them into another system.
They keep them more operable
and able to manipulate.
Nobody looks at the
human species and says,
what are we dealing
with here and how are
we going to guide it forward?
[INAUDIBLE], which means
blood of the dragon.
And when it turns white, you
scrape it over your fingernail
with your knife, and you
put it directly on the cut.
OK, this is called pinon blanco.
And if you want somebody to
have diarrhea for three days,
you make a tea of this
plant, and you just
flush their intestines
and their stomach out.
And this here, we have a
wall of ayahuasca here,
a wall of ayahuasca there,
and a wall of ayahuasca there.
It's dominating
the entire forest.
What we use with our ayahuasca
is the traditional form
of chacruna.
This is the one.
This is DMT, OK?
You have to combine this leaf
with the ayahuasca root for you
to be able to go into the trance
that we went into last night.
In the Western world, we try to
put it into scientific terms.
We've always tried to do that.
We've always made that mistake.
We've always missed
the spiritual element.
We've always missed the human
and psychological element.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SCOTT PETERSON:
Bascially what we're
trying to do, we're
trying to open
up that freedom and
liberation inside ourselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You're in a strange place.
You feel good, but you still
[INAUDIBLE] enough time
to really trust this place.
That's why we're gonna
take it easy tonight,
and then tomorrow
we're gonna dial
it up according to how the
medicine treated you overnight.
It has an enormous amount of
things to do inside your body.
And it does it very quickly
and very efficiently.
And it also cleans out
your emotional center,
and it opens up
your third eye so
that you can expand [INAUDIBLE]
the corners [INAUDIBLE]
mind dimensions.
So it's a
multi-facilitated medicine,
but it insists on
healing you first.
It insists on healing your
body and healing your heart
and your emotional
center before you
even go into the [INAUDIBLE].
[SINGING]
[INAUDIBLE]
[ROOSTER CROWING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Out of gas?
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Gracias.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SCOTT PETERSON:
Welcome to the jungle.
I'm sure you'll love it.
Come on and visit.
Who knows?
You might even get healthy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
--[INAUDIBLE] starts
foaming at the mouth
about another
street drug invading
the world from South America.
No worries.
Ayahuasca has nothing
to do with that shit,
nor could it ever be
a recreational drug.
It's a medicine of the
indigenous tribes here
and an ancient
method of therapy,
still mostly undiscovered
by the Western science.
[INAUDIBLE] says, respect
all things natural.
[MUSIC PLAYING]